Python - Modify Strings 
Python has a set of built-in methods that you can use on strings 

Upper Case 

The Upper() method returns the string in upper case: 
a = "Hello, world!"
print(a.upper())

Lower Case 
Example 
The Lower() method returns the sting in lower case: 

Remove Whitespace 
WhiteSpace is the space before and/or after the actual text, and very often you want to remove this space. 

Replace String 
Example 
The replce() method replaces a string with another string 

Split Strig 
The Split() method returns a list where the text between the specified separator becomes the lis items 

Lesson - Python - String Concatenation 

String Concatenation 
To concatenate, or combine, two strings you can use the + operator 

Lesson - Formay Strings 
String Format 
as we learned in the python variables chapter, we cannot combine strings and numbers like this: 
age = 36
txt = "My name is john, I am " + age 
print(txt)

but we can combine strings and numbers using f-strings on the format() method 

F- Strings 
F- string was introduced in Python 3.6 and is now the preferred way of formatting strings. 
To specify a string as an f-string simply put an f in font of the string literal, and add curly brackets as placeholders for varaibles and other operations 

PlaceHolders and Modifiers 
A PLaceHolder can contain variables, operations, functions, and modifiers to format the value 

Example 
price = 59
txt = f"The price is {price} dollars"
print(txt)

A placeholder can include a modifier to format the value 
A modifier is included by adding a : followed by a legfal format type like .2f which means fixed point number with 2 decimals: 

Example
Display the price with 2 decimals:

price = 59
txt = f"The price is {price:.2f} dollars"
print(txt)

A placeholder can contain python code, like math operations: 

Example 

Perform a math operation in the placeholder, and return the result:

txt = f"The price is {20 * 59} dollars"
print(txt)

Escape Character 
Escape characters 
to insert characters that are illegal in a string use and escape character. 
An Escape charater s a backslah \ followed by the character you want to insert. 
an example of an illegal character is a double quote inside a string that is surrounded by double quotes: 

Example 
txt = "We are the so-called "Vikings" from the north."

Tp fix this problem, use the exacpe character \" 

Example
The escape character allows you to use double quotes when you normally would not be allowed:

txt = "We are the so-called \"Vikings\" from the north."

Lesson Python Booleans 
Booleans represent one of two values: True or false 
Boolean Values 
In programming you often need to know if an expression is true or false.
You can evaluate any expression in Python, and get one of two answers, true or false. 
When you compare two values, teh expression is evaluatd and Python returns the boolean answer: 

Example 
print(10 > 9)
print(10 == 9)
print(10 < 9)

When you run a condition in an if statement, Python returns True or false

Example 
Print a message based on whether the condition is True or False 
a = 200 
b = 33 
if b> a: 
    print()
else: 
    print()

evaluate values and Variables 

The bool() function you to evaluate any values, and give you true or false in return 
print(bool("Hello"))
print(bool(15))

Example 
Evalue two vars
x = "Hello"
y = 15

print(bool(x))
print(bool(y))

Most Values are True 
Almost any value is evaluated to True if it has some sort of content. 
Any Strng is True, except empty strings. 
Any Number is True, Except 0. 
Any List Tuple Set and dictionary are true, except empty ones 

Somve values are false 
In fact, there are not many values  that evaluate to false, except empty values, such as (), [], {}, "", the number 0, and the value None. And of course the value false evaluates to false. 

One more value, or object i this case, evaultes to false, and that is if you have an object that is mafe for from 
class with a __len__ function that returns 0 or false: 

functions can return a Boolean 
You can crate functions that returns a bool value 
Example 
print the aswer of a function 
def myFunction() : 
    return true 
print(myFunction())

You can execute code based on the Boolean answer of a function: 

Example 
Print "YES" if the function returns true, otherwise print No 

de myfunc

Pythonm also has many built in functions that return a boolean value, like the isinstance() function, which can be used to determine if an object is of a certain data type: 
x = 200 
print(isinstance(x, int))