Lesson - Python - sort lists 
Sort list Alphanumercally 
Listt objects have a sort() method that will sort the list alphanumerically, ascending, by default:  

Sort Descending 
To sort descending, use the keyword argument reverse = True: 

Customize Sort Function 
you can also customize your own function by using the keyword argument key = function. 
The function will return a number that will be used to sort the list (the lowest number first):

Case Insensitive Sort 
 
by default the sort() method is case sensitive, resulting in all capital letters being sorted before lower case letters: 

Luckily we can use built-in functions as key functions when sorting a list. 
so if you want a case-insensitive sort function, use str.lower as a key function: 

Reverse Order 
What if ou want to reverse the order of a list, regardless of the alphabet? 
The reverse() method reverses the current sorting order of the elements.

Lesson - Python - Copy Lists 
Copy a list 
you cannot copy a list simply by typing list2 = list1, because: list 2  will only be a reference to list1, and changes in list1 will automatically 
also be made in list2 

Use the copy() method 
You can use the built in list method copy() to copy a list.

Use the list() method 
Another way to make a copy is to use the built in method list()

Use the slice operator 
You can also make a copy of a list by using the : (slice) operator. 

Lesson - Python - Join Lists 
Join Two Lists 
There are several ways to join, or concatenate, two or more lists in python.
One of the easiest ways are by using the + operator 

Another way to join two lists is by appending all the items from list2 into list1, one by one: 

or you can use the extend() method, where the purpose is to add elements from one list to another list: 

Python list methods 
List Methods
Python has a set of built-in methods that you can use on lists.

Method	Description
append()	Adds an element at the end of the list
clear()	Removes all the elements from the list
copy()	Returns a copy of the list
count()	Returns the number of elements with the specified value
extend()	Add the elements of a list (or any iterable), to the end of the current list
index()	Returns the index of the first element with the specified value
insert()	Adds an element at the specified position
pop()	Removes the element at the specified position
remove()	Removes the item with the specified value
reverse()	Reverses the order of the list
sort()	Sorts the list

Lesson - Pytohn - tuples 

mytuple = ("apple","banana","cherry")

Tuple 
Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
Tuple is one of 4 built in data types in python used to store collections of data, the other 3 are list, set and dictionary, all with different qualities and usage.
A tuple is a collection which is orderd and unchangeable 
tuples are wrtitten with round brackets.

Tuple Items 
Tuple items are ordered, unchangeable, and allow duplicate values. 
Tuple items are indexe , the first item has index[0], the second item has index [1] etc.

Ordered 
when we sau that tuples are ordered, it means that the items have a defined order, and that order will not change. 

Unchangeable 
Tupels are unchangeable, meaning that we cannot change, add or remve items after the tuple has been created. 

Allow Duplicates 
Since tuples are indexed, they can have items with the same value: 

Tuple Length 
To determine how many items a tuple has, use the len() function: 
 
Create tuple with one item 
to create a tuple with only one itmem, you have to add a comman after the item, otherwise python will not recognize it as a tuple 

Tuple Items - Data Types 
Tuple Items can be of any data type: 

A tuple can contain different data types: 

type()
from pythons perspective, tuples are defined as objects with the data type 'tuple':
<class 'tuple'>

TheTuple() constructor 
it is also possible to use the tuple() constructor to make a tuple. 

Python Collections (arrays)
there are four collection data types in the python programming language 
List is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable. allows duplicate members. 
Tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable. allows duplicate members. 
Set is a collection which is unordered, unchangeable , and unindexed. no duplicate members. 
Dictionary is a collection whcih is ordered ad unchangeable No duplicate members. 

Set itesm are unchangeable, but you can remove and/or add items whenever you like. 
As of python version 3.7, dictionaries are oredered. in Python 3.6 and earlier , dictionaries are unordered. 

When choosing a collection type, it is useful to understand the properties of that type. choosing the right type for a particular data set could 
mean retention of meaning, and, it could mean an increase in efficiency or security. 

Python Sets 
Myset = {"apple", "banana", "cherry"}

Lesson Python - Dictionaries 

thisdict = {
  "brand": "Ford",
  "model": "Mustang",
  "year": 1964
}

Dictionary 
Dictionaries are used to store data values in key:value pairs 
A dictionary is a collection which is orderd, unchangeable and do not allow duplicates. 

As of python Version 3.7, dictionaries are ordered. In Python 3.6 and earlier, dictionaries are unordered. 

Dictionaries are written with curly brackets, and have keys and values 

Dictionary Items 
Dictionary items are orderd, unchangeable, and do not allow duplicates. 
Dictionary items are presented in key:value pairs, and can be referred to by using the key name. 

ordered or unoredered? 
As of python version 3.7, dictionaries are ordered. in python 3.6 and earlier, dictionaries are unorderd . 

When we say tht dictionares are ordered, it means that the items have a defines order, and that order will not change. 

Unordered means that the items do not have a defined order, you cannot refer to an item by using an index. 

Changeable 
Ditionares are changeable, meaning that we can change, add or remove items after the dictionaryt has been created.

Duplicates not allowed 
Dictionaries cannot have two items with the same key : 

Dictionary Length 
To determine how many items a dictionary has, use the len() function: 

Dicitonary items - Data Types 
The Values in dictionary items can be of any data type: 

type()
from pythons perspective , dictionaries are defined as objects with the data type dict
<class 'dict'>

The dict() Constructor 
it is also possible to use the dict() constructor to make a dictionary. 

Lesson - Pyton Access Dictionary Items 
Accessing Items 
You can access the itesm of a ditionary by referring to its ke yname, inside square brackets: 

There is also a method called get() that will give you the same rsult: 

Get Keys the eys() method will return a list of all the keys in the dictionary

The list of the kes is a view of the dictionary, and see that the keys list gets updated as well: 

Get Values 
The values() method will return a list of all the vales in the dictionary. 

The List of the values is a view of the Dictionary, eaning that any changes done to the dictionary will be reflected in the values list. 

Get Items 
the items() method will return each item in a dictionary, as tuples in a list 

The returned list is a view of the tems of the dictionary, meaning that any changes done to the dictionary will be reflected it the items list 

Check if key exists 
To determine if a specified key is present in a dictionary use the in keyword: 


Lesson - Python - Change Dictionary Items 

Change values 
you can change the value of a specific item by referring to its key name: 

Update Dictionary
The update() method will update the dictionary with the items from the given argument. 
The Argument must be a dictionary, or an iterable object with key:value pairs 

Lesson - Add Dictionary Items 
Adding items 
Adding an item to the dictionary is done by using a new index key and assigning a value to it: 

Update Dictionary 
The update() method will update the dictionary with the items from a given argument. if the item does not exist, the item will be added. 
The argument must be a dictionary, or an iterable object with key:value pairws. 

Dictionary Methods 
Method	Description
clear()	Removes all the elements from the dictionary
copy()	Returns a copy of the dictionary
fromkeys()	Returns a dictionary with the specified keys and value
get()	Returns the value of the specified key
items()	Returns a list containing a tuple for each key value pair
keys()	Returns a list containing the dictionary's keys
pop()	Removes the element with the specified key
popitem()	Removes the last inserted key-value pair
setdefault()	Returns the value of the specified key. If the key does not exist: insert the key, with the specified value
update()	Updates the dictionary with the specified key-value pairs
values()	Returns a list of all the values in the dictionary

Lesson - python If Statement 

Python Conditions and If Statements 
Python supports the usual logical conditions from mathematics: 

Equals: a == b 
not equals a != b 
Less than a < b 
Less than or equal to a <= b
greater than a > b 
Greater than or eqaul o a >= b 

These conditions can be used in several ways, mos commonly in if statments and loops 
an if statement is wrttine by using the if keyword 

In this example we use two 

Lesson Python Shorthand if 
Short hand if 
if you have only one statement to execute, you can put it on the same line as the if statmenet 

Note you still need the colon : after the condition. 

Short hand if ... else 

if you have one statemetn for if and one for else, you can put them on the same line using a conditiona expression: 

This is called a conditional expression Sometimes knwon as a ternary operator 

Assign a value with if else 
You can also use a one- line if / else t choose a value and assign it to a varaible 

The Syntax follows this pattern : 
variable = value_if_true  if condition else value_if_false 

Multiple Conditions on One Line 
You can chain conditional expressions, but keep it short so it stays readable: 

Practical examples 
ternary operators are particularly useful for simple assignments and return statements 

When t use ShortHand if 
Shorthand if statements and ternary operators should be used when 
The conditon and actions are simple 
it imporves code readability 
you want to make a quick assignment based on a condition 

Important : While shorthand if statments can make code more concise, avoid overusing them 
for complex condiditons. for readability, use regular if-else 
statments when dealing with multiple lines of code or complex logic 

Lesson Python - logical  operators 

Logical operators 
Logical operators are used to combine statements. Python has three logical operators 
And, or , and Not. 
And - Returns True if both statements are true 
OR - returns true if one of the statements is true 
Not - reverses the result, returns false if the result is true 

The and Operator 
The and keyword is a logical operator and is used to combine conditional statements. bot hcondiditons msut be true for the entre expression to be true 

The or operator 
the or keyword is a logical operaotr, and is used to combine 
condiditonal satment. at least one condition must be true for the entire expression to be true 

The not operator 
The not keyword is a logical operator, and is used to rever the result of 
the conditional statement 

Combingin multiple operators 
You can combine multiple logical operators in a single expression. 
Python evaluates not first then and then or 

Truth Tables
Understanding how logical operators work with different values:

and Operator Truth Table
Condition 1	Condition 2	Result
True	True	True
True	False	False
False	True	False
False	False	False
or Operator Truth Table
Condition 1	Condition 2	Result
True	True	True
True	False	True
False	True	True
False	False	False

Using Parentheses for clarity 
Whe combining multiple logical operators, use parenthese to make your intentions clear and control the rder
of evaluation.