Python operators 
Operators are used to perform operations on variables and values. 
In the example beloew, we use the + operator to add together two values. 
print(10 + 5)

Although the + operator is often used t oadd together two values, like in the example above, it can also be used to add together a variable and a avalue, or two variables: 

sum1 = 100 + 50 
sum2 = sum1 + 250 
sum3 = sum2 + sum2

Division in python 
Python has two division operators 
/ division returns a float 
// floor division returns an int 

The Walrus operator 
python 3.8 introduced the := operator, known as the walrus operator. it assigns values to varaibles as part of a larger expression: 

Caomparison operators 

== - equal 
!- - not equal 
> - greater than 
< - less than 
>= - greater than or equal to 
<= - Less than or equal to 

Examples 

Chaining comparison operators 
Python allows you to chain comparison operators: 

Python logical operators 
Logical operators are used to combine conditional statements: 

and Returns True if both statements are true 
or returns true if one of the statements is true 
not Reverse the result, returns false if the result is true 

Identity operators 
Identity operators are used to compare the objects, not if they are equal, but if they are actually the same 
object, with the same memory location: 

is - returns true if both variables are the same object 
is not - returns true if both variables are not the same object 

Difference between is and == 
is - checks if both variables point to the same object in memory 
== - checks if the values of both variables are equal 

Membership operators 
In - returns True if a sequence with the specfified value is present in the object | exp x in y 
not in - returns true if a sequence with the specified value is not present in the object | exp x not in y



member ship operators also work with strings: 

bitwsie operators 

& == AND - Sets each bt to 1 if both bits are 1 example x & y
| == OR - sets each bit to 1 if one of two bits is 1 x | y 
^ == XOR - sets each bit to 1 if only one of two bits is 1 example x ^ y
~ == NOT - inverts all the bits example  ~x 
<< == Zero fill left shift - shifts left by pushing zeros in from the right and let the leftmost bits fall off example x << 2 
>> == Signed right by pushin copies of the leftmost bit in from the left, and let the rightmost bits fall off 

Example 
The & operator compares each bit and set it to 1 if both are 1, otherwise it is set to 0: 

print(6 & 3)

The binary representation of 6 is 0110 
The binary representation of 3 is 0011

Then the & operator compares the bits and returns 0010, which is 2 in decimal. 

Example the | operator compares each bit and set it to 1 if one or both is 1, otherwise it is set to 0: 
print(6 | 3)
the binary representation of 6 is 0110 
The binary representation of 3 is 0011

Then the | operator compares the bits and returns 0111, which is 7 in decimal 

Example
the ^ opertor compares each bit and set it to 1 if only one is 1, otherwise (if both are 1 or both are 0) it is set to 0: 

print(6 ^ 3)

The binary representation of 6 is 0110 
The binary representation of 3 is 0011

Then the ^ operator comapres the bits and returns 0101, which is 5 in decimal.  

operator precedence 

Example 
Parentheses has the highest precedence, meaning that expressions inside the parentheses must be evaluated first: 

Operator	Description	
()	Parentheses	
**	Exponentiation	
+x  -x  ~x	Unary plus, unary minus, and bitwise NOT	
*  /  //  %	Multiplication, division, floor division, and modulus	
+  -	Addition and subtraction	
<<  >>	Bitwise left and right shifts	
&	Bitwise AND	
^	Bitwise XOR	
|	Bitwise OR	
==  !=  >  >=  <  <=  is  is not  in  not in 	Comparisons, identity, and membership operators	
not	Logical NOT	
and	AND	
or	OR	

Left-to-right evaluation
If two operators have the same precedence, the expression is evaluate3d from left to right 

Python Lists 
mylist = ["","",""]

List 
lists are used to store multiple items in a single variable 
lists are one of 4 built in data types in python used to store collections of data, the other 3 
are tuple, set, and dictionary, all with different qualities and usage. 
Lists are created using square brackets: '

list items are ordered, changeable, and allow duplicate values.
List items are indexedf, the first item has index [0]. the second item has index [1] etc. 

Oredered 
When we say that lists are ordered, it means that the items have a defined order, and that order will not change.
if you add new items to a list, the new items will be placed at the end of the list. 

Note: there are some list methods that wll change the order, but in gerneal: the order of the items will not change. 

Changeable 
Thie list is changeable, meaning that we can change, add and remove items in a list after it has been created. 

Allow duplicates 
Since lists are indexed, lists can have items with the same value: 

Example Lists allow duplicate values: 

List Length 
To determine how many items a list has, use the len() function: 

List Items - Data Type s
list items can be of any data type 

A list can contain different data types: 

type(
    from pythons perspective, lists are defined as objects with the data type list 
    class 'list'
)

The list() constructor 
it is also possible to use the list() constructor when creating a new list. 

Py collections(Arrays) 

There are four collection data type sin the python programming language: 
List is a collection which is ordered and changeable. Allows duplicate members. 
Tuplle is a colletion which is ordered and unchangeable. Allows duplicate mems 
Ser is a collection which is unorderede, unchangeable and unindexed no duplicate members 
Dictionary is a collection which is orderd and changable no duplicate memebers 

Python - Access List Items 

Access Items 
List items are indexed and you can access them by referring to the index number: 

note the first item has index 0 

Negative Indexing 
Negative indexing means start from the nd 

-1 referes to the last item, -2 refers to the second last item etc. 

range of indexs you can specify a range of indexes by specifying where to start and where to end the range. 
when specifying a range, the return value will be a new lst with the specified items. 

Note: the search will start at index 2(included) and end at index 5 not included 

remember that the firs titem has index 0 

by leabing out the start value, the range will start at the first item: 

by leaving out the nd value, the reange will gon on to the end of the list: 

Range of negative indexes 
specify negative indexes if you want to start the search from the end of the list: 

check if item exists 
to determine if a specified item is present in a list use the in keyword: 

Lesson Change item value 

Change Item value 
To change the value of a specific item, refere to the index number: 

Change a range of items vaues 
to change the value of items within a specific range, define a list with  the new values, and refer to the range of the index umver where you want
to insert the ne wvalues 

if you insert more than you replace, the items will be inserted where you specifiec, and the reamining items iwll move accordingly: 

Note: the length of the list will change when the number of items inserted does not match the number of items replaced

if you insert less items than you replace the new items will be inserted where you specified, and the remaining items will move accordingly: 

Inser items 
to insert a new list item, without replacing any of the existing values, we can use the isnert() method. 
The insert() method inserts an tem at the specified index: 

Note: as a result of the example above, the list will now contain 4 items 
 
 Lesson - Python - add list items 
 Append items 
 to add an item to thje end of the list, use the append() method: 

 Insert items 
 to insert a list item at a specified index, use the insert() methods 
 the insert() method inserts an item at the soecifiec index: 

 Note: as a result of the examples above, the list will now contain 4 items.

 Extend list 
 To append elements from list to the current list, use the extend() method. 

 The elements will be added to the end of the list. 

 Add any iterable 
 The extend() method does not have to append lists, you can add any iterable object(tuples, sets, dictionaries, etc.)

 Lesson Python - Remove List items 

 Removfe Specified item 
 the remove() method removes the specified itme. 

 if there are more than onte item with the specified value, the remove() method removes the first occurrence: 

remove specified index
the pop() method removes the specified index

if you do not specify the index, the poo() method temoves the last item 

The del keyword also removes the specified index: 

Clear the list 
The ckear ()method empites the list. 
The list still remains, but t hase no content. 

Example Clear the list content: 

Pytthon - loop lists 

Loop through a list 

you can loop through the list items by using a for loop: 

loop through the index numbers 
you can also loop through the list items by referring to their index number. 
Use the range() and len() functions to create a suitable iterable. 

the iterable created in the example above is [0, 1, 2]

Using a while loop you can loop through the list items by using a while loop. 
Use the Len() function to determine the length of the list, then start at 0 and loop your way though the list items
by referring to their indexes 
remember to increase the index by 1 after each iteration. 

Looping using list comprehension 
List comprehension offers the shortest syntax for looping throguh lists: 

List comprehension  offers a shorter syntax when you want to create a new list based on the values of an existing list 
Example: 
Based on a ist of fruits, you want a new list, containing only the fruits with the letter "a" in the name. 
without list comprehension you will have to wite a for statement witha conditional test inside: 

with list comprehension you can do all tat with only one line of code: 

The Syntax newlist = [exression for item in iterable if condition == true]

The return value is a new list, leaving the old list unchanged

Condition is like a filter tat only accepts the items that evaluate to true. 

the condition if x != "apple" will return true for all elements other than "apple", making the new list contain all fruits except "apple"
the condition is optional and can be omitted:

iteravble 
the iterable can be any iterable object, like a list, tuple, set etc 

Expression 
The Expression is the current item in the iteration, but it is also the outcome, which you can manipulate before it ends up like a list item in the new list: 

you can set the outcome to whatever you like: 

The Expression can also contain conditions not like a filter but as a way to manipulate the outcome: 

The Expression in the example above says 
return the item if it is not banana, if it is banana return orange. 